# The rise and fall of hyperledger fabric, my personal thoughts

Hyperledger fabric started out as a large collaborative project. Lots of different companies working together to deliver a open source permissioned blockchain implementation. Today the only participant is IBM (with a few small contributions from IBM customers or ex-IBMers, eg Jay, Artem) but really it is an IBM owned project and it's IBM who have single handedly killed the collaboration and the community. IBM is definitely anti-community it will ensure it's needs and wants will prevail no matter what the community wants. We see this with the K8s operator.

The number of IBM maintainers actively participating is minimal (1 or 2 only) and as such only IBM authored PRs are considered and even then it takes time.

Nearly all the maintainers ignore the community. Here in IBM we have a rota to try to have 1 person a week do community work but this is a plaster over the obvious fact that the maintainers have abandoned the community. In fact most of the currently listed Fabric maintainers should be removed, it's not enough to contribute to be a maintainer. Maintainers should be doing more than contributing and based on that we can easily remove Ale, Senthil, Jay and Manish.

Another real embaressment is the 2022 mentorship program. I am a caliper maintainer and there are only 2 of us yet we have 2 mentorship projects approved. Fabric onlu has a couple and one of them is specific to the fabric sdks, the other is interopability neither of which came from any of the main fabric developers (who are all IBM). This is a pretty pathetic situation and really goes to show that Fabric has and always will be a secret IBM project that just happen to publish the source to. Funny that 2 other projects are about K8s operators for fabric, but no one knows that there is a plan to provide a K8s operator into hyperledger for fabric and that it's not a collaboration with other like minded people who have also produced k8s operators. Why is IBM open sourcing a K8s operator for business reasons of course to try to get people to buy it's support offering and so it has to align with the IBP product. If IBM wanted to collaborate it didn't make much of an effort to create a community around it (JoshK).

Fabric recently published a full stack guide using various non-proprietary technologies. Microfab and the IBP Ansible Collection. Microfab now looks like it will become a lab project which is a step in the right direction.

Lets talk about Fabric Operations Console. This is really a source only contribution. IBM takes this source and builds and maintains upto date images of the code but they also put in IBP specific code into this source tree (eg messages about migration which refers to IBP migration from SaaS). The builds in FOC itself are woefully out of date and refers to old versions of fabric. The documentation is minimal and not complete. For example there are debug routes that can be used. Where are these documented ?

Lets talk about the Fabric Operator. This is another example of IBM needing it to be Open Source for business purposes and bulldozing this out with no regard to Bevel, hlf-operator etc. It was we need it out and everyone should use this and this is the base. Fabric being IBM owned endorse only this way to deploy Fabric.
